hi I'm Dave troll it's a trial gallery a
custom furniture shop in st. Petersburg
Florida and let's talk to you about how
to make letters with a router with most
of my router jigs and templates I tend
to make them myself
I can make them fit exactly what I need
but when working with letters I think
it's best to go with a commercial
version this is one of the versions it's
on the market today very simple to
operate they come pretty much complete
with everything you need the letters
frame cutters and template guides
everything you need to take the router
to to turn your router into a sign
making machine all you're going to do is
set up your letters for the sign you're
going to make
generally speaking the letter i' is a
good size for space between two words
like I have here between the E and the G
that's just a spacer between two words
so everything up get your letters locked
in so there's no movement and you're
ready to go ahead and start making our
setting up for your cut what I'm going
to do is I'm going to improvise a little
and clamp my sign to my stock and my
stock to the table all at once you want
to make sure everything is is spaced out
the way you want it that you get the
right amount of space on the top and
bottom of your letters everything is
square nothing is going to move
everything is nice and tight the next
thing we want to do is to take our
router and set our depth of cut that's
done by simply setting the router on the
jig and then plunging down until our
cutter touches the stock and then what
we want to do is adjust our depth of cut
and we'll go for about a quarter of an
inch in this case you can measure it and
be as fussy as you need to
and then bring it up and we're ready to
go ahead and make our first cut
[Music]
again like with most jigs before you
take your jig off you want to double
check your work make sure everything is
cut clean then you can go ahead remove
your jig and take a look at your work
you can see in just a matter of a couple
minutes you can make an entire shine
once you get this the letter set up and
in place the cutting is very quick and
you get a very clean edge in this
particular case I used a round nose bit
which gives me the curved letters at the
bottom a lot of people also like to use
what's called the V nose which gives you
a nice crisp point at the bottom either
of those will work fine and give you a
nice clean set of letters to go with
your template so that's how to make
letters with a router I'm Dave troll -
troll gallery to find out if furniture
making